.TH briggs 1
.SH NAME
briggs \- stream to different data formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B briggs
[\fBOPTIONS\fR]
[\fB\-\-night\fR \fIBITS\fR]
.IR file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts CSV files to a variety of different data formats, such as:
.TP
\t\- JSON
.TP
\t\- SQLite
.TP
\t\- CSV
.TP
\t\- MySQL
.TP
\t\- SQL Server
.TP
\t\- Java classes
.TP
\t\- C/C++ structures
.TP
\t\- ColdFusion
.TP
\t\- and hopefully many more... 
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-convert \ [arg]
Load a file (should be a CSV now)
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delimiter \ [arg]
Specify a delimiter
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json               
Convert into JSON.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xml
Convert into XML.
.TP
.BR \-\-comma
Output a comma-seperated list.
.TP
.BR \-\-carray
Convert into a C-style array.
.TP
.BR \-\-cstruct
Convert into a C struct.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-sql \ [arg]
Output SQL INSERT statements.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-newline
Generate newline after each row.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-prefix \ [arg]
Specify a prefix
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-suffix \ [arg]
Specify a suffix
.SH EXAMPLES
For all transformations, briggs needs a CSV file. To convert a CSV file to a SQL insert statement, try:
.PP
.nf
.RS
briggs -c file.csv --sql "tooty"
.RE
.fi
You can also convert to JSON with the --json flag.
.PP
.nf
.RS
briggs -c file.csv --json
.RE
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Written by Antonio R. Collins II (ramar@tubularmodular.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT 
.TP
Copyright (c) 2019 Tubular Modular Inc.
.PP
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.PP
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.PP
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
.SH SEE ALSO 
.TP
Additional documentation available on http://collinsdesign.net/software/briggs.  Git source repository on https://github.com/zaiah-dj/briggs.git







